TiKV Project Security Self-Assessment - Security Pals (#1192)
cncf/tag-security: assessments/projects/TiKV/self-assessment.md

# TiKV Security Self-Assessment

## Table of contents

* [Metadata](#metadata)
  * [Security links](#security-links)
* [Overview](#overview)
  * [Background](#background)
  * [Architecture](#architecture)
  * [Actors](#actors)
  * [Actions](#actions)
  * [Goals](#goals)
  * [Non-goals](#non-goals)
* [Self-assessment use](#self-assessment-use)
* [Security functions and features](#security-functions-and-features)
* [Project compliance](#project-compliance)
* [Secure development practices](#secure-development-practices)
* [Security issue resolution](#security-issue-resolution)
* [Appendix](#appendix)
* [STRIDE Threat Model](#stride-threat-model)
* [Questions about potential vulnerabilities](#questions-about-potential-vulnerabilities)
* [Suggested action items](#suggested-action-items)

## Metadata
|   |  |
| -- | -- |
| Software | [TiKV](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/tree/master)  |
| Security Provider | No  |
| Languages | Rust, Java, Go, and C |

> | SBOM |Link to the dependencies file: [Cargo.toml](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/blob/master/Cargo.toml) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SBOM |Link to the dependencies file: TiKV does not currently generate an SBOM on release |
```

The cargo manifest and software bill of materials are different types of items with differing purposes.

* Develop and maintain sophisticated access control systems to manage permissions effectively for different users and services interacting with TiKV
* Ensure compatibility and integration with widely used cloud-native security tools and platforms for seamless deployment in various environments 
* TiKV adopts MVCC (Multiversion Concurrency Control) which offers an extra layer of security in data management by maintaining multiple versions of data records. This approach helps to prevent conflicts and inconsistencies in a distributed environment where concurrent transactions occur 

### Non-goals
* Not supposed to be a relational database (No SQL)
* Does not specifically implement features which compromise performance without clear security benefits
* Perfect security is not a goal of TiKV; the aim should be to mitigate risk to acceptable levels as perfect security is unattainable
* Does not address end-user security, such as password manager or client side security, which are outside the database’s control
* Does not attempt to solve external network security issues that are beyond the scope of TiKV

## Self-assessment use

> This self-assessment is created by the TiKV team to perform an internal analysis of the

Reviewer: You mention elsewhere in this document that the TiKV team was not available to participate in this self assessment, so this sentence appears inaccurate. Consider adjusting this sentence and using the topmost paragraph (below the first header) to list the names of all contributors to this document.

Reviewer 2: We added our names below the Overview Header and also updated the line you mentioned above (line 148). We wrote that line originally assuming that the TiKV project maintainers would be able to get back to us. Thank you for bringing it to our attention. If our changes do not reflect what you meant in your suggestion, please let us know!

**Potential vulnerabilities related to RocksDB, TiKV’s storage engine:**
* RocksDB may have vulnerable third-party dependencies, so if RocksDB has them, so does TiKV potentially.
* RocksDB does not support Data-at-Rest encryption (DARE), so does this affect the layers above?
* In fact, RocksDB does not have any built-in encryption features...

**Potential vulnerabilities related to TiKV clients:**
* A compromised client could potentially get unencrypted access, which would be made even worse due to an unencrypted disk?

**Potential vulnerabilities related to Placement Driver:**
* Placement Driver is responsible for storing all the metadata. If you control the Placement Driver could you affect availability or shut down the entire system?
* How vulnerable is the placement driver?

**Potential vulnerabilities related to Timestamp Oracle:**
* How can the Timestamp Oracle meet excessive demand without scaling to multiple nodes (in large projects)
* Timestamp Oracle is unable to be scaled up to multiple nodes
* When the current Raft leader fails, there is a gap wherein the system cannot allocate a timestamp before a new leader has been elected. Can an attacker exploit this?

> ## Suggested action items
> 
> Although we were not able to receive feedback from the TiKV project maintainers (at the time of writing), we have formulated several action items related to our understanding of TiKV and its potential vulnerabilities: 
> 
> **Access Controls for TiKV Nodes and Placement Drivers**
> * Mutual TLS Authentication: Enforce mutual TLS (Transport Layer Security) for all communications between clients and TiKV nodes, ensuring that both parties are authenticated.
> 
> **Password Protection and Authentication**
> * Adopt Advanced Authentication Mechanisms: Implement certificate-based authentication or integrate with identity providers that support OAuth2 or OpenID Connect, in addition to two-factor authentication.
> * Automated Credential Rotation: Implement automated systems for rotating credentials and keys at regular intervals or in response to specific events.
> 
> **Raft Consensus Algorithm Security**
> * Cryptographic Integrity Checks: Apply asymmetric key cryptography hash functions TiKV instance nodes to data being replicated via the Raft algorithm to ensure data integrity.
> * Anomaly Detection in Raft Protocol: Develop anomaly detection systems that can identify unusual patterns in Raft elections or message flows, indicating a potential Byzantine attack. (Statistics Integration inside Placement Driver to search for anomalous behavior during Raft Consensus Algorithm)
> 
> **Security in Multiversion Concurrency Control (MVCC)**
> * Timestamp Encryption and Validation: Encrypt timestamps and implement validation mechanisms to detect and prevent timestamp tampering.
> 
> **RocksDB and TiKV's Storage Engine**
> * Implement Plugin-Based Encryption: Develop a plugin system for RocksDB to support Data-at-Rest encryption (DARE).
> * Vulnerability Scanning and Patching Process: Regularly scan for vulnerabilities in RocksDB and its dependencies, and establish a quick patching process
> (SBOMs, no detailed checkup system for open-source dependencies).
> 
>  **Placement Driver Security**
>  * Distributed Trust and Consensus Mechanism: Implement a distributed trust and consensus mechanism for metadata changes in the Placement Driver.
>  * Backup and Recovery Plans: Establish robust backup and recovery plans for the metadata and transaction logs stored in the Placement Driver (Store two extra redundant copies of meta-data for recovery against data corruption – similar to the Raft Consensus Algorithm).
> 
> **Timestamp Oracle Scalability and Security**
> * High-Availability Setup for Timestamp Oracle: Implement a high-availability setup for the Timestamp Oracle with automatic failover capabilities.
> * Rate Limiting and Queue Management: Introduce rate limiting and queue management to handle high demand without compromising security or performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Following discussions from the review team, we are asking that Security Pals please remove any recommendations  from the scope of this document. You may optionally communicate recommendations for projects in a more accessible location, such as in a project community channel or GitHub Issue.

Reviewer 2: We successfully removed all of the recommendations from our document. Thank you for _your_ recommendation!
